<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>CHAPTER 26, Darkly Dreaming Dexter</title>
		<link href="../css/9780307275103_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<div>
			<span id="c26"/>
			<p class="cn"><b>CHAPTER 26</b></p>
			<p class="cotx1"><span class="big"><span class="big"><span class="big"> <b>F</b></span></span></span><small>OR A FEW SECONDS IT DIDN</small>’<small>T REALLY SEEM</small> necessary to breathe. I just looked. Long, slick strands of duct tape wrapped around my sister’s arms and legs. She wore gold lamé hot pants and a skimpy silk blouse tied above her navel. Her hair was pulled back tight, her eyes were unnaturally wide, and she breathed rapidly through her nose, since her mouth, too, was held closed by a strip of duct tape that went across her lips and down to the table to hold her head still.</p>
			<p class="tx">I tried to think of something to say, but realized my mouth was too dry to say it and so I just looked. Deborah looked back. There were many things in her eyes, but the plainest was fear, and that held me there in the doorway. I had never seen that look on her before and I was not sure what to think about it. I took half a step toward Deborah and she flinched against the duct tape. Afraid? Of course—but afraid of me? I was here to rescue her, most likely. Why should she be afraid of me? Unless—</p>
			<p class="tx">Had I done this?</p>
			<p class="tx">During my little “nap” earlier this evening what if Deborah had arrived at my apartment, as scheduled, and found my Dark Passenger behind the wheel of the Dexter-mobile? And unknown to me I had brought her here and taped her so tantalizingly to the table without consciously realizing it—which made absolutely no sense, naturally. Had I raced home and left myself the Barbie doll, then gone upstairs and flopped on the bed and woke up as “me” again, like I was running some kind of homicidal relay race? Impossible: but . . .</p>
			<p class="tx">How else had I known to come here?</p>
			<p class="tx">I shook my head; there was no way I could have picked this one cold box out of all the places in Miami, unless I already knew where it was. And I did. The only way that could be possible was if I had been here before. And if not tonight with Deb, then when and with whom?</p>
			<p class="tx">“I was almost sure this was the right spot,” a voice said, a voice so very like my own that for a moment I thought I had said it, and I wondered what I meant by that.</p>
			<p class="tx">The hair went up on the back of my neck and I took another half step toward Deborah—and he came forward out of the shadow. The soft light of the lanterns lit him up and our eyes met; for a moment the room spun back and forth and I did not quite know where I was. My sight shifted between me at the door and him at the small makeshift worktable, and I saw me seeing him, then I saw him seeing me. In a blinding flash I saw me on the floor, sitting still and unmoving, and I did not know what that vision meant. Very unsettling—and then I was myself again, although I was somewhat uncertain what that meant.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Almost sure,” he said again, a soft and happy voice like Mr. Rogers’s troubled child. “But now here you are, so this must be the right place. Don’t you think?”</p>
			<p class="tx">There is no pretty way for me to say this, but the truth is, I stared at him with my mouth hanging open. I am quite sure I was almost drooling. I just stared. It was him. There was no question about it. Here was the man in the pictures we had found on the webcam, the man both Deb and I had thought might very well be me.</p>
			<p class="tx">This close I could see that he was not, in fact, me; not quite, and I felt a small wave of gratitude at that realization. Hurray—I was someone else. I was not completely crazy yet. Seriously antisocial, of course, and somewhat sporadically homicidal, nothing wrong with that. But not crazy. There was somebody else, and he was not me. Three cheers for Dexter’s brain.</p>
			<p class="tx">But he was very much like me. Perhaps an inch or two taller, thicker through the shoulders and chest as though he had been doing a great deal of heavy weight lifting. That, combined with the paleness of his face, made me think that he might have been in prison recently. Behind the pallor, though, his face was very similar to mine; the same nose and cheekbones, the same look in the eyes that said the lights were on but nobody was home. Even his hair had the same awkward half wave to it. He did not really look like me, but very similar.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Yes,” he said. “It is a little bit of a shock the first time, isn’t it?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Just a little,” I said. “Who are you? And why is all this so—” I left it unfinished, because I did not know what all this was.</p>
			<p class="tx">He made a face, a very Dexter-disappointed face. “Oh, dear. And I was so sure you had figured it out.”</p>
			<p class="tx">I shook my head. “I don’t even know how I got here,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">He smiled softly. “Somebody else driving tonight?” As the hair stood up on the back of my neck he chuckled just a little, a mechanical sound that was not worth mentioning—except that the lizard voice from the underside of my brain matched it note for note. “And it isn’t even a full moon, is it?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“But not actually an empty moon,” I said. Hardly great wit, but some kind of attempt, which under the circumstances seemed significant. And I realized that I was half drunk with the realization that here at last was someone who <i>knew</i>. He was not making idle remarks that coincidentally stabbed into my own personal bull’s-eye. It was his bull’s-eye, too. He knew. For the first time I could look across the gigantic gulf between my eyes and someone else’s and say without any kind of worry, <i>He is like me</i>.</p>
			<p class="tx">Whatever it was that I was, he was one, too.</p>
			<p class="tx">“But seriously,” I said. “Who are you?”</p>
			<p class="tx">His face stretched into a Dexter-the-Cheshire-Cat smile, but because it was so much like my own I could see there was no real happiness behind it. “What do you remember from before?” he said. And the echo of that question bounced off the container’s walls and nearly shattered my brain.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>