<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>COPYRIGHT, Darkly Dreaming Dexter</title>
		<link href="../css/9780307275103_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="copyright-page">
		<div class="copyright" id="cop">
			<p class="crt">FIRST VINTAGE CRIME/BLACK LIZARD TRADE EDITION, SEPTEMBER 2006</p>
			<p class="crt"><i>Copyright © 2004 by Jeff Lindsay</i><br/><i>Excerpt from</i> Dearly Devoted Dexter <i>copyright © 2005 by Jeff Lindsay</i></p>
			<p class="crt">All rights reserved. Published in the United States by Vintage Books, a division of Random House, Inc., New York, and in Canada by Random House of Canada Limited, Toronto. Originally published in hardcover in the United States by Doubleday, a division of Random House, Inc., New York, in 2004, and subsequently in mass market paperback by Vintage Books, a division of Random House, Inc., New York, in 2005.</p>
			<p class="crt">Vintage is a registered trademark and Vintage Crime/Black Lizard and colophon are trademarks of Random House, Inc.</p>
			<p class="crt">This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.</p>
			<p class="crt">The Library of Congress has cataloged the Doubleday edition as follows:<br/>Lindsay, Jeffry P.<br/>Darkly dreaming dexter : a novel / by Jeffry Lindsay. —1<sup>st</sup> ed.<br/>p.   cm.<br/>1. Forensic scientists—Fiction. 2. Serial murderers—Fiction. 3. Serial murders—Fiction. 4. Vigilantes—Fiction. 5. Miami (Fla.)—Fiction.<br/>I. Title.<br/>PS3562.I51175D37 2004<br/>813′.54—dc22     2004045460</p>
			<p class="crt"><b>Vintage ISBN-10 0307277887</b><br/><b>Vintage ISBN-13 9780307277886</b><br/><b>Ebook ISBN 9780307275103</b></p>
			<p class="crt"><a class="pubhlink" href="http://www.vintagebooks.com">www.vintagebooks.com</a></p>
			<p class="crt">v3.0_r6</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>