<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>CHAPTER 21, Darkly Dreaming Dexter</title>
		<link href="../css/9780307275103_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<div>
			<span id="c21"/>
			<p class="cn"><b>CHAPTER 21</b></p>
			<p class="cotx1"><span class="big"><span class="big"><span class="big"> <b>“Y</b></span></span></span><small>OU DO UNDERSTAND IT</small>’<small>S A LONG SHOT?</small>” I <small>SAID.</small> “Probably we won’t find anything at all.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“I know that,” Deb said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“And we don’t actually have any jurisdiction here. We’re in Broward. And the Broward guys don’t like us, so—”</p>
			<p class="tx">“For Christ’s sake, Dexter,” she snapped. “You’re chattering like a schoolgirl.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Perhaps that was true, although it was very unkind of her to say so. And Deborah, on the other hand, appeared to be a bundle of steely, tightly wrapped nerves. As we turned off the Sawgrass Expressway and drove into the parking lot of the Office Depot Center she bit down harder. I could almost hear her jaw creak. “Dirty Harriet,” I said to myself, but apparently Deb was eavesdropping.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Fuck off,” she said.</p>
			<p class="tx">I looked from Deborah’s granite profile to the arena. For one brief moment, with the early-morning sunlight hitting it just right, it looked like the building was surrounded by a fleet of flying saucers. Of course it was only the outdoor lighting fixtures that sprouted around the arena like oversized steel toadstools. Someone must have told the architect they were distinctive. “Youthful and vigorous,” too, most likely. And I’m sure they were, in the right light. I did hope they would find the right light sometime soon.</p>
			<p class="tx">We drove one time around the arena, looking for signs of life. On the second circuit, a battered Toyota pulled up beside one of the doors. The passenger door was held closed with a loop of rope that ran out the window and around the doorpost. Opening the driver’s door as she parked, Deborah was already stepping out of the car while it was still rolling.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Excuse me, sir?” she said to the man getting out of the Toyota. He was fifty, a squat guy in ratty green pants and a blue nylon jacket. He glanced at Deb in her uniform and was instantly nervous.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Wha’?” he said. “I din’t do nothin’.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Do you work here, sir?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Shoor. ’Course, why you think I’m here, eight o’clock in the morning?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“What’s your name, please sir?”</p>
			<p class="tx">He fumbled for his wallet. “Steban Rodriguez. I got a ID.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Deborah waved that off. “That’s not necessary,” she said. “What are you doing here at this hour, sir?”</p>
			<p class="tx">He shrugged and pushed his wallet back into the pocket. “I s’posed to be here earlier most days, but the team is on the road—Vancouver, Ottawa, and L.A. So I get here a little later.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Is anyone else here right now, Steban?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Naw, jus’ me. They all sleep late.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“What about at night? Is there a guard?”</p>
			<p class="tx">He waved an arm around. “The security goes around the parking lot at night, but not too much. I the first one here mos’ days.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“The first one to go inside, you mean?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Yeah, tha’s right, what I say?”</p>
			<p class="tx">I climbed out of the car and leaned across the roof. “Are you the guy who drives the Zamboni for the morning skate?” I asked him. Deb glanced at me, annoyed. Steban peered at me, taking in my natty Hawaiian shirt and gabardine slacks. “Wha’ kinda cop you are, ha?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“I’m a nerd cop,” I said. “I just work in the lab.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Ooohhh, shoor,” he said, nodding his head as if that made sense.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Do you run the Zamboni, Steban?” I repeated.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Yeah, you know. They don’ lemme drive her in the games, you know. Tha’s for the guys with suits. They like to put a kid, you know. Some celebrity maybe. Ride around and wave, that shit. But I get to do it for the morning skate, you know. When the team is in town. I run the Zamboni just the morning, real early. But they on the road now so I come later.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“We’d like to take a look inside the arena,” Deb said, clearly impatient with me for speaking out of turn. Steban turned back to her, a crafty gleam lighting up half of one eye.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Shoor,” he said. “You got a warrant?”</p>
			<p class="tx">Deborah blushed. It made a wonderful contrast to the blue of her uniform, but it was possibly not the most effective choice for reinforcing her authority. And because I knew her well, I knew she would realize she had blushed and get mad. Since we did not have a warrant and did not, in fact, have any business here whatsoever that could remotely be considered officially sanctioned, I did not think that getting mad was our best tactical maneuver.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Steban,” I said before Deb could say anything regrettable.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Hah?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“How long have you worked here?”</p>
			<p class="tx">He shrugged. “Since the place open. I work at the old arena two year before that.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“So you were working here last week when they found the dead body on the ice?”</p>
			<p class="tx">Steban looked away. Under his tan, his face turned green. He swallowed hard. “I never want to see something like that again, man,” he said. “Never.”</p>
			<p class="tx">I nodded with genuine synthetic sympathy. “I really don’t blame you,” I said. “And that’s why we’re here, Steban.”</p>
			<p class="tx">He frowned. “Wha’ you mean?”</p>
			<p class="tx">I glanced at Deb to make sure she wasn’t drawing a weapon or anything. She glared at me with tight-lipped disapproval and tapped her foot, but she didn’t say anything.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Steban,” I said, moving a little closer to the man and making my voice as confidential and manly as I could, “we think there’s a chance that when you open those doors this morning, you might find the same kind of thing waiting for you.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Shit!” he exploded. “I don’ want nothin’ to do with that.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Of course you don’t.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“<i>Me cago en diez</i> with that shit,” he said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Exactly,” I agreed. “So why not let us take a peek first? Just to be sure.”</p>
			<p class="tx">He gaped at me for a moment, then at Deborah, who was still scowling—a very striking look for her, nicely set off by her uniform.</p>
			<p class="tx">“I could get in trouble,” he said. “Lose my job.”</p>
			<p class="tx">I smiled with authentic-looking sympathy. “Or you could go inside and find a stack of chopped-up arms and legs all by yourself. A lot more of them this time.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Shit,” he said again. “I get in trouble, lose my job, huh? Why I should do that, huh?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“How about civic duty?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Come on, man,” he said. “Don’t fuck with me. What do you care about if I lose my job?”</p>
			<p class="tx">He did not actually hold out his hand, which I thought was very genteel, but it was clear that he hoped for a small present to insulate him against the possible loss of his job. Very reasonable, considering that this was Miami. But all I had was $5, and I really needed to get a cruller and a cup of coffee. So I just nodded with manly understanding.</p>
			<p class="tx">“You’re right,” I said. “We hoped you wouldn’t have to see all the body parts—did I say there were quite a few this time? But I certainly don’t want you to lose your job. Sorry to bother you, Steban. Have a nice day!” I smiled at Deborah. “Let’s go, Officer. We should get back to the other scene and search for the fingers.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Deborah was still scowling, but at least she had the native wit to play along. She opened her car door as I cheerfully waved to Steban and climbed in.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Wait!” Steban called. I glanced at him with an expression of polite interest. “I swear to God, I don’ wanna find that shit ever again,” he said. He looked at me for a moment, perhaps hoping I would loosen up and hand him a fistful of Krugerands, but as I said, that cruller was weighing heavily on my mind and I did not relent. Steban licked his lips, then turned away quickly and jammed a key into the lock of the large double door. “Go ’head. I wait out here.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“If you’re sure—” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Come on, man, what you want from me? Go ’head!”</p>
			<p class="tx">I stood up and smiled at Deborah. “He’s sure,” I said. She just shook her head at me, a strange combination of little-sister exasperation and cop sour humor. She walked around the car and led the way in through the door and I followed.</p>
			<p class="tx">Inside, the arena was cool and dark, which shouldn’t have surprised me. It was, after all, a hockey rink early in the morning. No doubt Steban knew where the light switch was, but he had not offered to tell us. Deb unsnapped the large flashlight from her belt and swung the beam around the ice. I held my breath as the light picked out one goalie’s net, then the other. She swept back around the perimeter one time, slowly, pausing once or twice, then back to me.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Nothing,” she said. “Jack shit.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“You sound disappointed.”</p>
			<p class="tx">She snorted at me and headed back out. I stayed in the middle of the rink, feeling the cool radiate up off the ice, and thinking my happy thoughts. Or, more precisely, not quite <i>my</i> happy thoughts.</p>
			<p class="tx">Because as Deb turned to go out I heard a small voice from somewhere over my shoulder; a cool and dry chuckle, a familiar feather touch just under the threshold of hearing. And as dear Deborah departed, I stood motionless there on the ice, closed my eyes and listened to what my ancient friend had to say. It was not much—just a sub-whisper, a hint of unvocal, but I listened. I heard him chuckle and mutter soft and terrible things in one ear, while the other ear let me know that Deborah had told Steban to come in and turn on the lights. Which moments later he did, as the small off-voice whisper rose in a sudden crescendo of rattling jolly humor and good-natured horror.</p>
			<p class="tx"><i>What is it?</i> I asked politely. My only answer was a surge of hungry amusement. I had no idea what it meant. But I was not greatly surprised when the screaming started.</p>
			<p class="tx">Steban was really terrible at screaming. It was a hoarse, strangled grunting that sounded more like he was being violently sick than anything else. The man brought no sense of music to the job.</p>
			<p class="tx">I opened my eyes. It was impossible to concentrate under these circumstances, and anyway there was nothing more to hear. The whispering had stopped when the screaming began. After all, the screams said it all, didn’t they? And so I opened my eyes just in time to see Steban catapult out of the little closet at the far end of the arena and vault onto the rink. He went clattering across the ice, slipping and sliding and moaning hoarsely in Spanish and finally hurling headlong into the boards. He scrabbled up and skittered toward the door, grunting with horror. A small splotch of blood smeared the ice where he had fallen.</p>
			<p class="tx">Deborah came quickly through the door, her gun drawn, and Steban clawed past her, stumbling out into the light of day. “What is it?” Deborah said, holding her weapon ready.</p>
			<p class="tx">I tilted my head, hearing one last echo of the final dry chuckle, and now, with the grunting horror still ringing in my ears, I understood.</p>
			<p class="tx">“I believe Steban has found something,” I said.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>