<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>CHAPTER 16, Dearly Devoted Dexter</title>
		<link href="../css/9780385515801_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="c16">
			<p class="cn"><b>CHAPTER 16</b></p>
			<p class="cotx1"><span class="ic">I</span><small>T TOOK A VERY GREAT DEAL MORE THAN PATTING DEBORAH</small> on the shoulder and saying “There there” to get her calmed down this time. In fact I had to force-feed her a large glass of peppermint schnapps. I knew that she needed some kind of chemical help to relax and even sleep if possible, but Debs had nothing in her medicine chest stronger than Tylenol, and she was not a drinker. I finally found the schnapps bottle under her kitchen sink, and after making sure it wasn't actually drain cleaner I made her chug down a glass of it. From the apparent taste, it might as well have been drain cleaner. She shuddered and gagged but she drank it, too bone weary and brain numb to fight.</p>
			<p class="tx">While she slumped in her chair I threw a few changes of her clothing into a grocery bag and dropped it by the front door. She stared at the bags and then at me. “What are you doing,” she said. Her voice was slurred and she sounded uninterested in the answer.</p>
			<p class="tx">“You're staying at my place for a few days,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Don't want to,” she said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“It doesn't matter,” I said. “You have to.”</p>
			<p class="tx">She shifted her gaze to the bag of clothing by the door. “Why.”</p>
			<p class="tx">I walked over to her and squatted beside her chair. “Deborah. He knows who you are and where you are. Let's try to make it just a little bit of a challenge for him, all right?”</p>
			<p class="tx">She shuddered again, but she didn't say anything more as I helped her to her feet and out the door. Half an hour and one more slug of peppermint schnapps later she was in my bed, snoring lightly. I left her a note to call me when she woke up, and then I took her little surprise package with me and headed in to work.</p>
			<p class="tx">I didn't expect to find any important clues from running the finger through a lab check, but since I do forensics for a living it seemed like I really ought to give it a professional once-over. And because I take all my obligations very seriously, I stopped on the way and bought doughnuts. As I approached my second-floor cubbyhole, Vince Masuoka came down the hall from the opposite direction. I bowed humbly and held up the bag. “Greetings, Sensei,” I said. “I bring gifts.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Greetings, Grasshopper,” he said. “There is a thing called time. You must explore its mysteries.” He held up his wrist and pointed to his watch. “I'm on my way to lunch, and now you bring me my breakfast?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Better late than never,” I said, but he shook his head.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Nah,” he said. “My mouth has already changed gears. I'm gonna go get some <i>ropa vieja</i> and <i>plátanos</i>.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“If you spurn my gift of food,” I said, “I will give you the finger.” He raised an eyebrow, and I handed him Deb's package. “Can I have half an hour of your time before lunch?”</p>
			<p class="tx">He looked at the small box. “I don't think I want to open this on an empty stomach, do I?” he said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Well then, how about a doughnut?”</p>
			<p class="tx">It took more than half an hour, but by the time Vince left for lunch we had learned that there was nothing to learn from Kyle's finger. The cut was extremely clean and professional, done with a very sharp instrument that left no trace behind in the wound. There was nothing under the fingernail except a little dirt that could have come from anywhere. I removed the ring, but we found no threads or hairs or telltale fabric swatches, and Kyle had somehow failed to etch an address or phone number onto the inside of the ring. Kyle's blood type was AB positive.</p>
			<p class="tx">I put the finger into cold storage, and slipped the ring into my pocket. That wasn't exactly standard procedure, but I was fairly sure that Deborah would want it if we didn't get Kyle back. As it was, it looked like if we did get him back it would be by messenger, one piece at a time. Of course, I'm not a sentimental person, but that didn't seem like something that would warm her heart.</p>
			<p class="tx">By now I was very tired indeed, and since Debs hadn't called yet I decided that I was well within my rights to head for home and take a nap. The afternoon rain started as I climbed into my car. I shot straight down LeJeune in the relatively light traffic and got home after being screamed at only one time, which was a new record. I dashed in through the rain and found Deborah gone. She had scribbled a note on a Post-it saying she would call later. I was relieved, since I had not been looking forward to sleeping on my half-size couch. I crawled right into my own bed and slept without interruption until a little after six o'clock in the evening.</p>
			<p class="tx">Naturally, even the mighty machine that is my body needs a certain amount of maintenance, and when I sat up in bed I felt very much in need of an oil change. The long night with so little sleep, the missed breakfast, the tension and suspense of trying to think of something besides “There there” to say to Deborah—all these things had taken their toll. I felt as though someone had snuck in and packed my head with beach sand, even including the bottle caps and cigarette butts.</p>
			<p class="tx">There is only one solution to this occasional condition, and that is exercise. But as I decided that what I really needed was a pleasant two- or three-mile jog, I remembered again that I had misplaced my running shoes. They were not in their usual spot by the door, and they were not in my car. This was Miami, so it was possible that someone had broken into my apartment and stolen them; they were, after all, very nice New Balance shoes. But I thought it more likely that I had left them over at Rita's. For me, to decide is to act. I toddled down to my car and drove over to Rita's house.</p>
			<p class="tx">The rain was long gone—it seldom lasts even an hour—and the streets were already dry and filled with the usual cheerfully homicidal crowd. My people. The maroon Taurus showed up behind me at Sunset, and stayed with me all the way. It was nice to see Doakes back on the job. I had felt just a little bit neglected. Once again he parked across the street as I knocked on the door. He had just turned off the engine when Rita opened the door. “Well,” she said. “What a surprise!” She lifted her face for a kiss.</p>
			<p class="tx">I gave her one, putting a little extra English on it to entertain Sergeant Doakes. “There's no easy way to say this,” I said, “but I've come for my running shoes.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Rita smiled. “Actually, I just put mine on. Care to get sweaty together?” And she held the door wide for me.</p>
			<p class="tx">“That's the best invitation I've had all day,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">I found my shoes in her garage beside the washing machine, along with a pair of shorts and a sleeveless sweatshirt, laundered and ready to go. I went into the bathroom and changed clothes, leaving my work clothes folded neatly on the toilet seat. In just a few minutes Rita and I were trotting up the block together. I waved to Sergeant Doakes as we went by. We ran down the street, turned right for a few blocks, and then around the perimeter of the nearby park. We had run this route together before, had even measured it out at just under three miles, and we were used to each other's pace. And so about half an hour later, sweaty and once again willing to face the challenges of another evening of life on Planet Earth, we stood at the front door of Rita's house.</p>
			<p class="tx">“If you don't mind, I'll take the first shower,” she said. “That way I can start dinner while you clean up.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Absolutely,” I said. “I'll just sit out here and drip.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Rita smiled. “I'll get you a beer,” she said. A moment later she handed me one and then went in and closed the door. I sat on the step and sipped my beer. The last few days had gone by in a savage blur, and I had been so entirely upended from my normal life that I actually enjoyed the moment of peaceful contemplation, calmly sitting there and drinking a beer while somewhere in the city Chutsky was shedding spare parts. Life whirled on around me with its sundry slashings, strangulations, and dismemberings, but in Dexter's Domain it was Miller Time. I raised the can in a toast to Sergeant Doakes.</p>
			<p class="tx">Somewhere in the house I heard a commotion. There was shouting and a little bit of squealing, as if Rita had just discovered the Beatles in her bathroom. Then the front door slammed open and Rita grabbed me around the neck in a stranglehold. I dropped my beer and gasped for air. “What? What did I do?” I said. I saw Astor and Cody watching from just inside the door. “I'm terribly sorry, and I'll never do it again,” I added, but Rita kept squeezing.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Oh, Dexter,” she said, and now she was crying. Astor smiled at me and clasped her hands together under her chin. Cody just watched, nodding a little bit. “Oh, Dexter,” Rita said again.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Please,” I said, struggling desperately to get some air, “I promise it was an accident and I didn't mean it. What did I do?” Rita finally relented and loosened her death grip.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Oh, Dexter,” she said one more time, and she put her hands on my face and looked at me with a blinding smile and a faceful of tears. “Oh, YOU!” she said, although to be honest it didn't seem very much like me at the moment. “I'm sorry, it was an accident,” she said, snuffling now. “I hope you didn't have anything really special planned.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Rita. Please. What is going on?”</p>
			<p class="tx">Her smile got bigger and bigger. “Oh, Dexter. I really—it was just— Astor needed to use the toilet, and when she picked up your clothes, it just fell out onto the floor and— Oh, Dexter, it's so beautiful!” She had now said Oh Dexter so many times that I began to feel Irish, but I still had no idea what was going on.</p>
			<p class="tx">Until Rita lifted up her hand in front of her. Her left hand. Now with a large diamond ring sparkling on her ring finger.</p>
			<p class="tx">Chutsky's ring.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Oh, Dexter,” she said again, and then buried her face in my shoulder. “Yes yes YES! Oh, you've made me so happy!”</p>
			<p class="tx">“All right,” Cody said softly.</p>
			<p class="tx">And after that, what can you say except congratulations?</p>
			<p class="tx">The rest of the evening passed in a blur of disbelief and Miller Lite. I knew very well that hovering somewhere out in space was a perfect, calm, logical series of words that I could put together and say to Rita to make her understand that I had not actually proposed to her, and we would all have a good laugh and say good night. But the harder I searched for that magical elusive sentence, the faster it ran away from me. And I found myself reasoning that perhaps one more beer would unlock the doors of perception, and after several cans Rita went up to the corner store and returned with a bottle of champagne. We drank the champagne and everyone seemed so very happy, and one thing led to another and somehow I ended up in Rita's bed once again, witness to some exceedingly unlikely and undignified events.</p>
			<p class="tx">And once again I found myself wondering, as I drifted off to stunned and unbelieving sleep: <i>How do these terrible things always happen to me?</i></p>
			<p class="ls2"> </p>
			<p class="tx1">Waking up after a night like that is never very pleasant. Waking up in the middle of the night and thinking, <i>Oh God—Deborah!</i> is even worse. You may think I was guilty or uneasy about neglecting someone who depended on me, in which case you would be very wrong. As I have said, I don't really feel emotions. I can, however, experience fear, and the idea of Deborah's potential rage pulled the trigger. I hurried into my clothes and managed to slip out to my car without waking anyone. Sergeant Doakes was no longer in his position across the street. It was nice to know that even Doakes needed to sleep sometime. Or perhaps he had thought that someone who just got engaged deserved a little privacy. Knowing him as I did, however, this didn't seem likely. It was far more likely that he had been elected pope and had to fly off to the Vatican.</p>
			<p class="tx">I drove home quickly, and checked my answering machine. There was one automated message urging me to buy a new set of tires before it was too late, which seemed ominous enough, but no message from Debs. I made coffee and waited for the thump of the morning paper against my door. There was a sense of unreality to the morning that was not entirely caused by the aftereffects of the champagne. Engaged, was I? Well well. I wished that I could scold myself and demand to know what I thought I had been doing. But the truth was that, unfortunately, I hadn't been doing anything wrong; I was entirely clothed in virtue and diligence. And I had done nothing that could be called spectacularly stupid—far from it. I had been proceeding with life in a noble and even exemplary manner, minding my own business and trying to help my sister recover her boyfriend, exercising, eating plenty of green vegetables, and not even slicing up other monsters. And somehow all this pure and decent behavior had snuck around behind me and bitten me on the ass. Never a good deed goes unpunished, as Harry used to say.</p>
			<p class="tx">And what could I do about it now? Surely Rita would come to her senses. I mean, really: <i>ME?</i> Who could possibly want to marry <i>ME?!</i> There had to be better alternatives, like becoming a nun, or joining the Peace Corps. This was Dexter we were talking about. In a city the size of Miami, couldn't she find somebody who was at least human? And what was her rush to get married again anyway? It hadn't worked out terribly well for her the first time, but she was apparently willing to plunge right back into it again. Were women really this desperate to get married?</p>
			<p class="tx">Of course there were the children to think about. Conventional wisdom would say they needed a father, and there was something to that, because where would I have been without Harry? And Astor and Cody had looked so happy. Even if I made Rita see that a comical mistake had happened, would the kids ever understand?</p>
			<p class="tx">I was on my second cup of coffee when the paper came. I glanced through the main sections, relieved to find that terrible things were still happening almost everywhere. At least the rest of the world hadn't gone crazy.</p>
			<p class="tx">By seven o'clock I thought it would be safe to call Deborah on her cell phone. There was no answer; I left a message, and fifteen minutes later she called back. “Good morning, Sis,” I said, and I marveled at the way I managed to sound cheerful. “Did you get some sleep?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“A little,” she grumbled. “I woke up around four yesterday. I traced the package to a place in Hialeah. I drove around the area most of the night looking for the white van.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“If he dropped the package way up in Hialeah, he probably drove in from Key West to do it,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“I know that, goddamn it,” she snapped. “But what the hell else am I supposed to do?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“I don't know,” I admitted. “But doesn't the guy from Washington get here today?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“We don't know anything about him,” she said. “Just because Kyle is good, doesn't mean this guy will be.”</p>
			<p class="tx">She apparently didn't remember that Kyle had not shown himself to be particularly good, at least in public. He'd done nothing at all, in fact, except get himself captured and have his finger nipped off. But it didn't seem politic for me to comment on how good he was, so I simply said, “Well, we have to assume the new guy knows something about this that we don't know.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Deborah snorted. “That wouldn't be too hard,” she said. “I'll call you when he gets in.” She hung up, and I got ready for work.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>