<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>CHAPTER 5, Dearly Devoted Dexter</title>
		<link href="../css/9780385515801_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="c05">
			<p class="cn"><b>CHAPTER 5</b></p>
			<p class="cotx1"><span class="ic">G</span><small>IVEN ENOUGH TIME, I AM SURE I COULD COME UP </small>with an entire list of things more unpleasant than having Sergeant Doakes turn into my own personal shadow. But as I stood there in my high-fashion foul-weather gear and thought of Reiker and his red boots slipping away from me, it seemed bad enough, and I was not inspired to think of anything worse. I simply climbed into my car, started the engine, and drove through the rain to my apartment. Ordinarily, the homicidal antics of the other drivers would have comforted me, made me feel right at home, but for some reason the maroon Taurus following so close behind took away the glow.</p>
			<p class="tx">I knew Sergeant Doakes well enough to know that this was not simply a rainy-day whim on his part. If he was watching me, he would keep watching me until he caught me doing something naughty. Or until he was unable to watch me anymore. Naturally enough, I could readily think of a few intriguing ways to make sure he lost interest. But they were all so permanent, and while I did not actually have a conscience, I did have a very clear set of rules that worked somewhat the same way.</p>
			<p class="tx">I had known that sooner or later Sergeant Doakes would do something or other to discourage my hobby, and I had thought long and hard about what to do when he did. The best I had come up with, alas, was wait and see.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Excuse me?” you might say, and you have every right. “Can we truly ignore the obvious answer here?” After all, Doakes might be strong and lethal, but the Dark Passenger was much more so, and no one could stand against him when he took the wheel. Perhaps just this once . . .</p>
			<p class="tx"><i>No</i>, said the small soft voice in my ear.</p>
			<p class="tx">Hello, Harry. Why not? And as I asked, I thought back to the time he had told me.</p>
			<p class="tx"><i>There are rules, Dexter</i>, Harry had said.</p>
			<p class="tx">Rules, Dad?</p>
			<p class="ls2"> </p>
			<p class="tx1">It was my sixteenth birthday. There was never much of a party, since I had not learned yet to be wonderfully charming and chummy, and if I was not avoiding my drooling contemporaries then they were generally avoiding me. I lived my adolescence like a sheepdog moving through a flock of dirty, very stupid sheep. Since then, I had learned a great deal. For example, I was not that far off at sixteen—people really are hopeless!—but it just doesn't do to let on.</p>
			<p class="tx">So my sixteenth birthday was a rather restrained affair. Doris, my foster mom, had recently died of cancer. But my foster sister, Deborah, made me a cake and Harry gave me a new fishing rod. I blew out the candles, we ate the cake, and then Harry took me into the backyard of our modest Coconut Grove house. He sat at the redwood picnic table that he had built by the brick barbecue oven and motioned me to sit, too.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Well, Dex,” he said. “Sixteen. You're almost a man.”</p>
			<p class="tx">I wasn't sure what that was supposed to mean—me? a man? as in human?—and I did not know what sort of response was expected of me. But I did know that it was usually best not to make clever remarks with Harry, so I just nodded. And Harry gave me a blue-eyed X-ray. “Are you interested in girls at all?” he asked me.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Um—in what way?” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Kissing. Making out. You know. Sex.”</p>
			<p class="tx">My head whirled at the thought as though a cold dark foot were kicking at the inside of my forehead. “Not, uh, no. I, um,” I said, silver-tongued even then. “Not like that.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Harry nodded as if that made sense. “Not boys, though,” he said, and I just shook my head. Harry looked at the table, then back at the house. “When I turned sixteen my father took me to a whore.” He shook his head and a very small smile flickered across his face. “It took me ten years to get over that.” I could think of absolutely nothing to say to that. The idea of sex was completely alien to me, and to think of <i>paying</i> for it, especially for your child, and when that child was <i>Harry</i>—well really. It was all too much. I looked at Harry with something close to panic and he smiled.</p>
			<p class="tx">“No,” said Harry. “I wasn't going to offer. I expect you'll get more use out of that fishing rod.” He shook his head slowly and looked away, far out over the picnic table, across the yard, down the street. “Or a fillet knife.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Yes,” I said, trying not to sound too eager.</p>
			<p class="tx">“No,” he said again, “we both know what you want. But you're not ready.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Since the first time Harry had talked to me about what I was, on a memorable camping trip a couple of years ago, we had been getting me ready. Getting me, in Harry's words, <i>squared away</i>. As a muttonheaded young artificial human I was eager to get started on my happy career, but Harry held me back, because Harry always knew.</p>
			<p class="tx">“I can be careful,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“But not perfect,” he said. “There are rules, Dexter. There have to be. That's what separates you from the other ones.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Blend in,” I said. “Clean up, don't take chances, um . . .”</p>
			<p class="tx">Harry shook his head. “More important. You have to be sure before you start that this person really deserves it. I can't tell you the number of times I knew somebody was guilty and I had to let them go. To have the bastard look at you and smirk, and you know and he knows, but you have to hold the door for him and let him go—” He clenched his jaw and tapped a fist on the picnic table. “You won't have to. BUT . . . you have to be sure. Dead sure, Dexter. And even if you're absolutely positive—” He held his hand up in the air, palm facing me. “Get some proof. It doesn't have to hold up in court, thank God.” He gave a small and bitter laugh. “You'd never get anywhere. But you need proof, Dexter. That's the most important thing.” He tapped the table with his knuckle. “You have to have proof. And even then—”</p>
			<p class="tx">He stopped, an uncharacteristic Harry pause, and I waited, knowing something difficult was coming. “Sometimes even then, you let them go. No matter how much they deserve it. If they're too . . . <i>conspicuous</i>, for example. If it would raise too much attention, let it go.”</p>
			<p class="ls2"> </p>
			<p class="tx1">Well, there it was. As always, Harry had the answer for me. Whenever I was unsure, I could hear Harry whispering in my ear. I was sure, but I had no proof that Doakes was anything except a very angry and suspicious cop, and chopping up a cop was certainly the sort of thing the city got indignant about. After the recent untimely demise of Detective LaGuerta, the police hierarchy would almost certainly be a little sensitive about a second cop going out in the same way.</p>
			<p class="tx">No matter how necessary it seemed, Doakes was out of bounds for me. I could look out the window at the maroon Taurus nosed under a tree, but I could do nothing about it except wish for some other solution to spontaneously arise—for example, a piano falling on his head. Sadly enough, I was left hoping for luck.</p>
			<p class="tx">But there was no luck tonight for poor Disappointed Dexter, and lately there had been a tragic lack of falling pianos in the Miami area. So here I was in my little hovel, pacing the floor with frustration, and every time I casually peeked out the window, there was the Taurus parked across the way. The memory of what I had been so happily contemplating only an hour ago pounded in my head. <i>Can Dexter come out and play?</i> Alas, no, dear Dark Passenger. Dexter is in time-out.</p>
			<p class="tx">There was, however, one constructive thing I could do, even cooped up in my apartment. I took the crumpled piece of paper from MacGregor's boat out of my pocket and smoothed it out, which left my fingers sticky from the leftover gunk off the roll of duct tape to which the paper had been stuck. “Reiker,” and a phone number. More than enough to feed to one of the reverse directories I could access from my computer, and in just a few minutes I had done so.</p>
			<p class="tx">The number belonged to a cell phone, which was registered to a Mr. Steve Reiker of Tigertail Avenue in Coconut Grove. A little bit of cross-checking revealed that Mr. Reiker was a professional photographer. Of course, it could have been a coincidence. I am sure that there are many people named Reiker around the world who are photographers. I looked in the Yellow Pages and found that this particular Reiker had a specialty. He had a quarter-page ad that said, “Remember Them as They Are Now.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Reiker specialized in pictures of children.</p>
			<p class="tx">The coincidence theory might have to go.</p>
			<p class="tx">The Dark Passenger stirred and gave a small chuckle of anticipation, and I found myself planning a trip over to Tigertail for a quick look around. In fact, it wasn't terribly far away. I could drive over now, and—</p>
			<p class="tx">And let Sergeant Doakes follow along playing Pin the Tail on the Dexter. Splendid idea, old chum. That would save Doakes a great deal of boring investigative work when Reiker finally disappeared some day. He could cut through all the dull routine and just come get me.</p>
			<p class="tx">And at this rate, when would Reiker disappear? It was terribly frustrating to have a worthwhile goal in sight, and yet to be held in check like this. But after several hours Doakes was still parked across the street and I was still here. What to do? On the plus side, it seemed obvious that Doakes had not seen enough to take any action beyond following me. But leading the way in the very large minus column, if he continued to follow me I would be forced to stay in character as the mild-mannered forensic lab rat, carefully avoiding anything more lethal than rush hour on the Palmetto Expressway. That would never do. I felt a certain pressure, not just from the Passenger but from the clock. Before too much time passed I needed to find some proof that Reiker was the photographer who took MacGregor's pictures, and if he was, have a sharp and pointed chat with him. If he realized MacGregor had gone the way of all flesh he would most likely run for the hills. And if my associates at police headquarters realized it, things could get very uncomfortable for Dashing Dexter.</p>
			<p class="tx">But Doakes had apparently settled in for a long stay, and at the moment there was nothing I could do about it. It was terribly frustrating to think of Reiker walking around instead of thrashing against the duct tape. Homicidus interruptus. A soft moan and a gnashing of mental teeth came from the Dark Passenger, and I knew just how he felt, but there seemed to be very little I could do except pace back and forth. And even that wasn't very helpful: if I kept it up I would wear a hole in the carpet and then I would never get back my security deposit on the apartment.</p>
			<p class="tx">My instinct was to do something that would throw Doakes off the track—but he was no ordinary bloodhound. I could think of only one thing that might take the scent out of his quivering, eager snout. It was just barely possible that I could wear him down, play the waiting game, be relentlessly normal for so long that he would have to give it up and return to his real job of catching all the truly horrible residents on the underside of our fair city. Why even now they were out there double parking, littering, and threatening to vote Democratic in the next election. How could he waste time on little old Dexter and his harmless hobby?</p>
			<p class="tx">All right then: I would be unstintingly ordinary until it made his teeth hurt. It might take weeks rather than days, but I would do it. I would live fully the synthetic life I had created in order to appear human. And since humans are generally ruled by sex, I would start with a visit to my girlfriend Rita.</p>
			<p class="tx">It's an odd term, “girlfriend,” particularly for grown persons. And in practice an even odder concept. Generally speaking, in adults it described a woman, not a girl, who was willing to provide sex, not friendship. In fact, from what I had observed it was quite possible for one to actively dislike one's girlfriend, although of course true hatred is reserved for marriage. I had so far been unable to determine what women expect in return from a boyfriend, but apparently I had it as far as Rita was concerned. It certainly wasn't sex, which to me seemed about as interesting as calculating foreign trade deficits.</p>
			<p class="tx">Luckily, Rita also was uninterested in sex, for the most part. She was the product of a disastrous early marriage to a man whose idea of a good time turned out to be smoking crack and beating her. Later he branched out into infecting her with several intriguing diseases. But when he battered the kids one night Rita's marvelous country-song loyalty ruptured, and she flung the swine out of her life and, happily, into prison.</p>
			<p class="tx">As a result of all this turmoil, she had been looking for a gentleman who might be interested in companionship and conversation, someone who did not need to indulge the crude animal urges of base passion. A man, in other words, who would value her for her finer qualities and not her willingness to indulge in naked acrobatics. Ecce, Dexter. For almost two years she had been my ideal disguise, a key ingredient of Dexter as the world at large knew him. And in return I had not beaten her, had not infected her with anything, had not forced my animal lust on her, and she actually seemed to enjoy my company.</p>
			<p class="tx">And as a bonus, I had become quite fond of her children, Astor and Cody. Strange, perhaps, but nonetheless true, I assure you. If everyone else in the world were to mysteriously disappear, I would feel irritated about it only because there would be no one to make me doughnuts. But children are interesting to me and, in fact, I like them. Rita's two kids had been through a traumatic early childhood, and maybe because I had, too, I felt a special attachment to them, an interest that went beyond maintaining my disguise with Rita.</p>
			<p class="tx">Aside from the bonus of her children, Rita herself was quite presentable. She had short and neat blond hair, a trim and athletic body, and she seldom said things that were outright stupid. I could go in public with her and know that we looked like an appropriately matched human pair, which was really the whole point. People even said we were an attractive couple, although I was never sure what that meant. I suppose Rita found me attractive somehow, although her track record with men didn't make that too flattering. Still, it's always nice to be around somebody who thinks I am wonderful. It confirms my low opinion of people.</p>
			<p class="tx">I looked at the clock on my desk. Five thirty-two: within the next fifteen minutes Rita would be home from her job at Fairchild Title Agency, where she did something very complicated involving fractions of percentage points. By the time I got to her house, she should be there.</p>
			<p class="tx">With a cheerful synthetic smile I headed out the door, waved to Doakes, and drove over to Rita's modest South Miami house. The traffic wasn't too bad, which is to say that there were no fatal accidents or shootings, and in just under twenty minutes I parked my car in front of Rita's bungalow. Sergeant Doakes cruised past to the end of the street and, as I knocked on the front door, he parked across the way.</p>
			<p class="tx">The door swung open and Rita peered out at me. “Oh!” she said. “Dexter.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“In person,” I said. “I was in the neighborhood and wondered if you were home yet.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Well, I—I just walked in the door. I must look like a mess . . . Um—come on in. Would you like a beer?”</p>
			<p class="tx">Beer; what a thought. I never touch the stuff—and yet, it was so amazingly normal, so perfectly visit-the-girlfriend-after-work, even Doakes had to be impressed. It was just the right touch. “I would love a beer,” I said, and I followed her into the relative cool of the living room.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Have a seat,” she said. “I'm just going to freshen up a little.” She smiled at me. “The kids are out back, but I'm sure they'll be all over you when they find out you're here.” And she swished off down the hall, returning a moment later with a can of beer. “I'll be right back,” she said, and went away to her bedroom at the back of the house.</p>
			<p class="tx">I sat on the sofa and looked at the beer in my hand. I am not a drinker—really, drinking is not a recommended habit for predators. It slows the reflexes, dulls the perceptions, and knits up the raveled sleeve of care, which always sounded to me like a very bad thing. But here I was, a demon on vacation, attempting the ultimate sacrifice by giving up my powers and becoming human—and so a beer was just the thing for Dipsophobic Dexter.</p>
			<p class="tx">I took a sip. The taste was bitter and thin, just as I would be if I had to keep the Dark Passenger buckled into his seat belt for very long. Still, I suppose beer is an acquired taste. I took another sip. I could feel it gurgle all the way down and splash into my stomach, and it occurred to me that with all the excitement and frustration of the day I hadn't eaten lunch. But what the hell—it was just a light beer; or as the can proudly proclaimed: <small>LITE BEER</small>. I suppose we should be very grateful they hadn't thought of a cuter way to spell beer.</p>
			<p class="tx">I took a big sip. It wasn't that bad when you got used to it. By golly, it really WAS relaxing. I, at any rate, felt more relaxed with each swig. Another refreshing sip—I couldn't remember that it had tasted this good when I'd tried it in college. Of course, I was just a boy then, not the manly mature hardworking upright citizen I was now. I tilted the can, but nothing came out.</p>
			<p class="tx">Well—somehow the can was empty. And yet I was still thirsty. Could this unpleasant situation really be tolerated? I thought not. Absolutely intolerable. In fact, I did not plan to tolerate it. I stood up and proceeded to the kitchen in a firm and unyielding manner. There were several more cans of lite beer in the refrigerator and I took one back to the couch.</p>
			<p class="tx">I sat. I opened the beer. I took a sip. Much better. Damn that Doakes anyway. Maybe I should take him a beer. It might relax him, get him to loosen up and call the whole thing off. After all, we were on the same side, weren't we?</p>
			<p class="tx">I sipped. Rita came back wearing a pair of denim shorts and a white tank top with a tiny satin bow at the neckline. I had to admit, she looked very nice. I could really pick a disguise. “Well,” she said as she slid onto the couch next to me, “it's nice to see you, out of the blue like this.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“It certainly must be,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">She cocked her head to one side and looked at me funny. “Did you have a hard day at work?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“An awful day,” I said, and took a sip. “Had to let a bad guy go. Very bad guy.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Oh.” She frowned. “Why did—I mean, couldn't you just . . .”</p>
			<p class="tx">“I wanted to just,” I said. “But I couldn't.” I raised the beer can to her. “Politics.” I took a sip.</p>
			<p class="tx">Rita shook her head. “I still can't get used to the idea that, that—I mean, from the outside it seems so cut-and-dried. You find the bad guy, you put him away. But politics? I mean, with—what did he do?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“He helped to kill some kids,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Oh,” she said, and looked shocked. “My God, there must be something you can do.”</p>
			<p class="tx">I smiled at her. By gum, she had seen it right away. What a gal. Didn't I say I could pick 'em? “You have put your finger right on it,” I said, and I took her hand to look at that finger. “There is something I can do. And very well, too.” I patted her hand, spilling only a little bit of beer. “I knew you'd understand.”</p>
			<p class="tx">She looked confused. “Oh,” she said. “What kind of—I mean— What will you do?”</p>
			<p class="tx">I took a sip. Why shouldn't I tell her? I could see she already got the idea. Why not? I opened my mouth, but before I could whisper even one syllable about the Dark Passenger and my harmless hobby, Cody and Astor came racing into the room, stopped dead when they saw me, and stood there looking from me to their mother.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Hi Dexter,” Astor said. She nudged her brother.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Hi,” he said softly. He was not a big talker. In fact, he never said much of anything. Poor kid. The whole thing with his father had really messed him up. “Are you drunk?” he asked me. It was a big speech for him.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Cody!” Rita said. I waved her off bravely and faced him.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Drunk?” I said. “Me?”</p>
			<p class="tx">He nodded. “Yeah.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Certainly not,” I said firmly, giving him my very best dignified frown. “Possibly a little bit tipsy, but that's not the same thing at all.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Oh,” he said, and his sister chimed in, “Are you staying for dinner?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Oh, I think I should probably be going,” I said, but Rita put a surprisingly firm hand on my shoulder.</p>
			<p class="tx">“You're not driving anywhere like this,” she said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Like what?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Tipsy,” said Cody.</p>
			<p class="tx">“I'm not tipsy,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“You said you were,” said Cody. I couldn't remember the last time I'd heard him put four words in a row like that, and I was very proud of him.</p>
			<p class="tx">“You did,” Astor added. “You said you're not drunk, you're just a little tipsy.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“I said that?” They both nodded. “Oh. Well then—”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Well then,” Rita chimed in, “I guess you're staying for dinner.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Well then. I guess I did. I am pretty sure I did, anyway. I do know that at some point I went to the refrigerator for a lite beer and discovered they were all gone. And at some later point I was sitting on the couch again. The television was on and I was trying to figure out what the actors were saying and why an invisible crowd thought it was the most hilarious dialogue of all time.</p>
			<p class="tx">Rita slid onto the couch next to me. “The kids are in bed,” she said. “How do you feel?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“I feel wonderful,” I said. “If only I could figure out what's so funny.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Rita put a hand on my shoulder. “It really bothers you, doesn't it? Letting the bad guy go. Children . . .” She moved closer and put her arm all the way around me, laying her head on my shoulder. “You're such a good guy, Dexter.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“No, I'm not,” I said, wondering why she would say something so very strange.</p>
			<p class="tx">Rita sat up and looked from my left eye to my right eye and back again. “But you are, you KNOW you are.” She smiled and nestled her head back down on my shoulder. “I think it's . . . nice that you came here. To see me. When you were feeling bad.”</p>
			<p class="tx">I started to tell her that wasn't quite right, but then it occurred to me: I <i>had</i> come here when I felt bad. True, it was only to bore Doakes into going away, after the terrible frustration of losing my playdate with Reiker. But it had turned out to be a pretty good idea after all, hadn't it? Good old Rita. She was very warm and she smelled nice. “Good old Rita,” I said. I pulled her against me as tight as I could and leaned my cheek against the top of her head.</p>
			<p class="tx">We sat that way for a few minutes, and then Rita wiggled to her feet and pulled me up by the hand. “Come on,” she said. “Let's get you to bed.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Which we did, and when I had flopped down under the top sheet and she crawled in beside me, she was just so nice and smelled so good and felt so warm and comfortable that—</p>
			<p class="tx">Well. Beer really is amazing stuff, isn't it?</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>