<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head><title>Bullshit Jobs</title><link href="styles-lg.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body>
    <div class="div_biblio">
      <div class="appen" id="appen-002">
        <h1 class="appen_tit">
          <span>Bibliographie</span>
        </h1>
        <div class="dev">
          <p class="txt_courant_justif"><a id="page_396"></a><a id="page_397"></a>Ackroyd Stephen et Thompson Paul, <i>Organizational Misbehaviour</i>, Londres, Sage, 1999.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Anderson Perry, <i>Passages from Antiquity to Feudalism</i>, Londres, Verso Press, 1974.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Applebaum Herbert, <i>The Concept of Work : Ancient, Medieval, and Modern</i> (SUNY Series in the Anthropology of Work), Albany, NY, SUNY Press, 1992.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Arendt Hannah, <i>The Human Condition</i>, Chicago, University of Chicago Press, 1958 ; trad. fr. <i>L’Humaine Condition</i>, Paris, Gallimard, coll. « Quarto », 2012.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Baumeister Roy, Wotman Sara et Stillwell Arlene, « Unrequited Love : On Heartbreak, Anger, Guilt, Scriptlessness, and Humiliation », <i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i>, vol. 64, n<sup>o</sup> 3, 1993, p. 377-394.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Beder Sharon, <i>Selling the Work Ethic : From Puritan Pulpit to Corporate PR</i>, Londres, Zed Books, 2000.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Black Bob, « The Abolition of Work », <i>The Abolition of Work and Other Essays</i>, Port Townsend, WA, Loompanics, 1986 ; trad. fr. par Julius Van Daal, <i>Travailler, moi ? Jamais !</i>, Paris, L’Esprit frappeur, 1997.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Bloch Maurice, <i>Anthropology and the Cognitive Challenge</i>, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2012.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif"><a id="page_398"></a>Braverman Harry, <i>Labor and Monopoly Capital : The Degradation of Work in the Twentieth Century</i>, New York, Monthly Review Press, 1974.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Bregman Rutger, <i>Utopia for Realists : The Case for Universal Basic Income, Open Borders, and a 15-Hour Workweek</i>, Amsterdam, De Correspondent, 2016.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Brigden Susan, « Youth and the English Reformation », <i>Past &amp; Present</i>, vol. 95, 1982, p. 37-67.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Broucek Francis, « The Sense of Self », <i>Bulletin of the Menninger Clinic</i>, vol. 41, 1977, p. 85-90.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— « Efficacy in Infancy : A Review of Some Experimental Studies and Their Possible Implications to Clinical Theory », <i>International Journal of Psycho-Analysis</i>, vol. 60, 1<sup>er</sup> janvier 1979, p. 311-316.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Brown Wilmette, <i>Black Women and the Peace Movement</i>, Bristol, Royaume-Uni, Falling Wall Press, 1983.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Brygo Julien et Cyran Olivier, <i>Boulots de merde ! Enquête sur l’utilité et la nuisance sociales des métiers</i>, Paris, La Découverte, 2016.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Budd John W., <i>The Thought of Work</i>, Ithaca, NY, Cornell University Press, 2011.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Carlyle Thomas, <i>Past and Present</i>, Londres, Chapman and Hall, 1843 ; trad. fr. <i>Cathédrales d’autrefois et usines d’aujourd’hui</i>, par Camille Bos, Paris, Éd. de la Revue blanche, 1901.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Chancer Lynn, <i>Sadomasochism in Everyday Life : The Dynamics of Power and Powerlessness</i>, New Brunswick, NJ, Rutgers University Press, 1992.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Clark Alice, <i>Working Life of Women in the Seventeenth Century</i>, Londres, George Routledge and Sons, 1919.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Cooper Sheila McIsaac, « Service to Servitude ? The Decline and Demise of Life-Cycle Service in England », <i>History of the Family</i>, vol. 10, 2005, p. 367-386.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Davala Sarath, Jhabrala Renana, Kapor Soumya <i>et al.</i>, <i>Basic Income : A Transformative Policy for India</i>, Londres, Bloomsbury Academic Press, 2015.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Doukas Dimitra, <i>Worked Over : The Corporate Sabotage of an American Community</i>, Ithaca, NY, Cornell University Press, 2003.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif"><a id="page_399"></a>Durrenberger E. Paul et Doukas Dimitra, « Gospel of Wealth, Gospel of Work : Counterhegemony in the U.S. Working Class », <i>American Anthropologist</i> (nouvelle série), vol. 110, n<sup>o</sup> 2, 2008, p. 214-224.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Ehmer Josef et Lis Catharina, « Introduction : Historical Studies in Perception of Work », in <i>The Idea of Work in Europe from Antiquity to Modern Times</i>, éd. Ehmer et Lis, Farnham, Royaume-Uni, Ashgate, 2009, p. 33-70.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Ehrenreich Barbara, <i>Fear of Falling : The Inner Life of the Middle Class</i>, New York, Pantheon, 1989.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Ehrenreich Barbara et Ehrenreich John, « The Professional-Managerial Class », in <i>Between Labor and Capital</i>, éd. par Paul Walker, Boston, South End Press, 1979, p. 5-45.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Evans-Pritchard E. E., <i>The Nuer : A Description of the Modes of Livelihood and Political Institutes of a Nilotic People</i>, Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1940 ; trad. fr. par Louis Evrard, <i>Les Nuer. Description des modes de vie et des institutions politiques d’un peuple nilote</i> [1940], Paris, Gallimard, 1968.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Faler Paul G., <i>Mechanics and Manufacturers in the Early Industrial Revolution : Lynn, Massachusetts, 1780-1860</i>, Albany, NY, State University of New York Press, 1981.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Finley Moses I., <i>The Ancient Economy</i>, Berkeley, University of California Press, 1973 ; trad. fr. <i>Économie et société en Grèce ancienne</i>, Paris, La Découverte, 2007.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Fleming Peter, <i>The Mythology of Work : How Capitalism Persists Despite Itself</i>, Londres, Pluto Press, 2015.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Ford Martin, <i>The Rise of the Robots : Technology and the Threat of Mass Unemployment</i>, Londres, Oneworld, 2015 ; trad. fr. par Florence Devesa et Philippe Adams, <i>L’Avènement des machines. Robots &amp; intelligence artificielle : la menace d’un avenir sans emploi</i>, Limoges, FYP Éditions, 2017.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Foucault Michel, « The Subject and Power », <i>Critical Inquiry</i>, vol. 8, n<sup>o</sup> 4, 1982, p. 777-795 ; en français : <i>Dits et Écrits</i>, vol. IV : <i>1980-1988</i>, Paris, Gallimard, 1994.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>The Final Foucault</i>, Cambridge, MA, MIT Press, 1988 ; en français : « L’éthique du souci de soi comme pratique de la liberté », in <i>Dits et Écrits</i>, vol. II : <i>1976-1988</i>, Paris, Gallimard, 2001.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif"><a id="page_400"></a>Frank Thomas, <i>Listen Liberal, Or Whatever Happened to the Party of the People ?</i>, New York, Henry Holt, 2016.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Frayne David, <i>The Refusal of Work : The Theory and Practice of Resistance to Work</i>, Londres, Zed Books, 2015.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Frey Carl B. et Osborne Michael A., « The Future of Employment : How Susceptible Are Jobs to Computerisation ? », <i>Technological Forecasting and Social Change</i>, vol. 114, 2017, p. 254-280.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Fromm Erich, <i>The Anatomy of Human Destructiveness</i>, New York, Henry Holt, 1973.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Galbraith John Kenneth, <i>American Capitalism : The Concept of Countervailing Power</i>, Harmondsworth, Royaume-Uni, Penguin, 1963.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>The New Industrial State</i>, Harmondsworth, Royaume-Uni, Penguin, 1967.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>The Affluent Society</i>, Harmondsworth, Royaume-Uni, Penguin, 1969.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— « On Post-Keynesian Economics », <i>Journal of Post-Keynesian Economics</i>, vol. 1, n<sup>o</sup> 1, 1978, p. 8-11.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Gini Al, « Work, Identity and Self : How We Are Formed by the Work We Do », <i>Journal of Business Ethics</i>, vol. 17, 1998, p. 707-714.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>My Job, My Self : Work and the Creation of the Modern Individual</i>, Londres, Routledge, 2012.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Gini Al et Sullivan Terry, « Work : The Process and the Person », <i>Journal of Business Ethics</i>, vol. 6, 1987, p. 649-655.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Ginsberg Benjamin, <i>The Fall of the Faculty</i>, New York, Oxford University Press, 2013.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Glenn Joshua et Kingwell Mark, <i>The Wage Slave’s Glossary</i>, Windsor, Can., Biblioasis, 2011.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Gorz André, <i>Farewell to the Working Class : An Essay on Postindustrial Socialism</i>, Londres, Pluto, 1997 ; en français : <i>Adieux au prolétariat</i>, Paris, Galilée, 1980.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>Critique of Economic Reason</i>, Londres, Verso, 2010 ; en français : <i>Métamorphoses du travail. Critique de la raison économique</i>, Paris, Galilée, 1988.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif"><a id="page_401"></a>Graeber David, « Manners, Deference and Private Property », <i>Comparative Studies in Society and History</i>, vol. 39, n<sup>o</sup> 4, 1997, p. 694-728.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>Debt : The First 5,000 Years</i>, Brooklyn, NY, Melville House, 2011 ; trad. fr. par Paul Chemla, <i>Dette. 5 000 ans d’histoire</i>, Paris, Les Liens qui libèrent, 2013.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— « Of Flying Cars and the Declining Rate of Profit », <i>Baffler</i>, n<sup>o</sup> 19, printemps 2012, p. 66-84.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>The Utopia of Rules : Technology, Stupidity, and the Secret Joys of Bureaucracy</i>, Brooklyn, NY, Melville House, 2015 ; trad. fr. par Paul Chemla, <i>Bureaucratie. L’utopie des règles</i>, Paris, Les Liens qui libèrent, 2015.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Gutman Herbert G., « Protestantism and the American Labor Movement : The Christian Spirit in the Gilded Age », <i>American Historical Review</i>, vol. 72, 1966, p. 74-101.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Hajnal John, « European Marriage Patterns in Perspective », in <i>Population in History : Essays in Historical Demography</i>, éd. par D. V. Glass et D. E. C. Eversley, Londres, Edward Arnold, 1965, p. 101-143.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— « Two Kinds of Preindustrial Household Formation System », <i>Population and Development Review</i>, vol. 8, n<sup>o</sup> 3, septembre 1982, p. 449-494.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Hanlon Gerard, <i>The Dark Side of Management : A Secret History of Management Theory</i>, Londres, Routledge, 2016.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Hardt Michael et Antonio Negri, <i>Labor of Dionysus : A Critique of the State Form</i>, Minneapolis, University of Minnesota Press, 1994.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>Empire</i>, Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press, 2000 ; trad. fr. par Denis-Armand Canal, <i>Empire</i>, Paris, Exils, 2000.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Hayes Robert M., « A Simplified Model for the Fine Structure of National Information Economies », in <i>Proceedings of NIT 1992 : The Fifth International Conference on New Information Technology</i>, W. Newton, MA, MicroUse Information, 1992, p. 175-194.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Hochschild Arlie Russell, <i>The Managed Heart : Commercialization of Human Feeling</i>, Berkeley, University of California Press, 2012.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif"><a id="page_402"></a>Holloway John, <i>Crack Capitalism</i>, Londres, Pluto Press, 2010 ; trad. fr. par José Chatroussat, <i>Crack Capitalism. 33 thèses contre le capitalisme</i>, Paris, Libertalia, 2012.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Ignatiev Noel, <i>How the Irish Became White</i>, New York, Routledge, 1995.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Kazin Michael, <i>The Populist Persuasion : An American History</i>, New York, Basic Books, 1995.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Keen Steve, <i>Debunking Economics : The Naked Emperor Dethroned ?</i>, Londres, Zed, 2011.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Klein G. S., « The Vital Pleasures », in <i>Psychoanalytic Theory : An Exploration of Essentials</i>, éd. par M. M. Gill et Leo Roseberger, New York, International Universities Press, 1976, p. 210-238.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Kraus M. W., Côté S. et D. Keltner, « Social Class, Contextualism, and Empathic Accuracy », <i>Psychological Science</i>, vol. 21, n<sup>o</sup> 11, 2010, p. 1716-1723.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Kussmaul Anne, <i>Servants in Husbandry in Early-Modern England</i>, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1981.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Laslett Peter, « Characteristics of the Western Family Considered over Time », in <i>Household and Family in Past Time</i>, éd. par P. Laslett et R. Wall, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1972.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>Family Life and Illicit Love in Earlier Generations</i>, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1977.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— « Family and Household as Work Group and Kin Group », in <i>Family Forms in Historic Europe</i>, éd. par R. Wall, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1983.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>The World We Have Lost Further Explored : England Before the Industrial Revolution</i>, New York, Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1984 ; trad. fr. de la 1<sup>re</sup> éd. de 1965 par Christophe Campos, <i>Un monde que nous avons perdu</i>, Paris, Flammarion, 1969.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Lazerow Jama, <i>Religion and the Working Class in Antebellum America</i>, Washington, DC, Smithsonian Institution Press, 1995.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Lazzarato Maurizio, « Immaterial Labor », in <i>Radical Thought in Italy</i>, éd. par Paolo Virno et Michael Hardt, Minneapolis, University of Minnesota Press, 1996, p. 133-147.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Le Goff Jacques, <i>Time, Work and Culture in the Middle Ages</i>, Chicago, University of Chicago Press, 1982 ; trad. fr. <i>Pour un <a id="page_403"></a>autre Moyen Âge. Temps, travail et culture en Occident</i>, Paris, Gallimard, coll. « Tel », 1978.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Lockwood Benjamin B., Nathanson Charles G. et Weyl E. Glen, « Taxation and the Allocation of Talent », <i>Journal of Political Economy</i>, vol. 125, n<sup>o</sup> 5, octobre 2017, p. 1635-1682, <a class="url" href="http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/full/10.1086/693393">www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/full/10.1086/693393</a>.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Maier Corinne, <i>Bonjour Paresse : de l’art et la nécessité d’en faire le moins possible en entreprise</i>, Paris, Michalon, 2004.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Mills C. Wright, <i>White Collar : The American Middle Classes</i>, New York, Galaxy Books, 1951 ; trad. fr. par André Chassigneux, <i>Les Cols blancs. Essai sur les classes moyennes américaines</i>, Paris, Seuil, 1966.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Morse Nancy et Weiss Robert, « The Function and Meaning of Work and the Job », <i>American Sociological Review</i>, vol. 20, n<sup>o</sup> 2, 1966, p. 191-198.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Nietzsche Friedrich, <i>Aurore</i> [1881], Paris, Garnier-Flammarion, 2012.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Orr Yancey et Orr Raymond, « The Death of Socrates : Managerialism, Metrics and Bureaucratization in Universities », <i>Australian Universities’ Review</i>, vol. 58, n<sup>o</sup> 2, 2016, p. 15-25.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Pagels Elaine, <i>Adam, Eve and the Serpent</i>, New York, Vintage Books, 1988.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Paulsen Roland, <i>Empty Labor : Idleness and Workplace Resistance</i>, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2014.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Pessen Edward, <i>Most Uncommon Jacksonians : The Radical Leaders of the Early Labor Movement</i>, Albany, NY, SUNY Press, 1967.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Ray Benjamin C., <i>Myth, Ritual and Kingship in Buganda</i>, Londres, Oxford University Press, 1991.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Rediker Marcus, <i>The Slave Ship : A Human History</i>, Londres, Penguin, 2004 ; trad. fr. par Aurélien Blanchard, <i>À bord du négrier. Une histoire atlantique de la traite</i>, Paris, Seuil, 2013.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Reich Robert, <i>The Work of Nations : Preparing Ourselves for 21st Century Capitalism</i>, New York, Alfred A. Knopf, 1992.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Russell Bertrand, <i>In Praise of Idleness</i>, Londres, Unwin Hyman, 1935 ; trad. fr. par Michel Parmentier, <i>Éloge de l’oisiveté</i>, Paris, Allia, 2002.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif"><a id="page_404"></a>Schmidt Jeff, <i>Disciplined Minds : A Critical Look at Salaried Professionals and the Soul-Battering System That Shapes Their Lives</i>, Londres, Rowman &amp; Littlefield, 2001.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Sennett Richard, <i>The Fall of Public Man</i>, Londres, Penguin, 2003.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>Respect : The Formation of Character in an Age of Inequality</i>, Londres, Penguin, 2004.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>The Corrosion of Character : The Personal Consequences of Work in the New Capitalism</i>, New York, Norton, 2008.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>The Craftsman</i>, New York, Penguin, 2009.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Standing Guy, <i>The Precariat : The New Dangerous Class</i> (Bloomsbury Revelations), Londres, Bloomsbury Academic Press, 2016.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— <i>Basic Income : And How We Can Make It Happen</i>, Londres, Pelican, 2017.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Starkey David, « Representation Through Intimacy : A Study in the Symbolism of Monarchy and Court Office in Early Modern England », in <i>Symbols and Sentiments : Cross-Cultural Studies in Symbolism, </i>éd. par Ioan Lewis, Londres, Academic Press, 1977, p. 187-224.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Stellar Jennifer, Manzo Vida, Kraus Michael et Keltner Dacher, « Class and Compassion : Socioeconomic Factors Predict Responses to Suffering », <i>Emotion</i>, vol. 12, n<sup>o</sup> 3, 2011, p. 1-11.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Stone Lawrence, <i>The Family, Sex and Marriage in England, 1500-1800</i>, Londres, Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 1977.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Summers John, <i>The Politics of Truth : Selected Writings of C. Wright Mills</i>, Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2008.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Tawney R. H., <i>Religion and the Rise of Capitalism</i>, New York, Harcourt, Brace &amp; World, 1924.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Terkel Studs, <i>Working : People Talk About What They Do All Day and How They Feel About What They Do</i>, New York, New Press, 1972 ; trad. fr. par Denise Meunier et Aurélien Blanchard, <i>Working. Histoires orales du travail aux États-Unis</i>, Paris, Éditions Amsterdam, 2005.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Thomas Keith, <i>Religion and the Decline of Magic</i>, New York, Scribner Press, 1971.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— « Age and Authority in Early Modern England », <i>Proceedings of the British Academy</i>, vol. 62, 1976, p. 1-46.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif"><a id="page_405"></a>— <i>The Oxford Book of Work</i>, Oxford, Oxford University Press, 1999.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Thompson, E. P., <i>The Making of the English Working Class</i>, Londres, Victor Gollancz, 1963 ; trad. fr. G. Dauvé, M. Golaszewski et M.-N. Thibault, <i>La Formation de la classe ouvrière anglaise</i>, Paris, Seuil, coll. « Points », 2012.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">— « Time, Work Discipline and Industrial Capitalism », <i>Past &amp; Present</i>, vol. 38, 1967, p. 56-97 ; trad. fr. par Isabelle Taudière, <i>Temps, discipline de travail et capitalisme industriel</i>, Paris, La Fabrique, 2004.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Thompson Paul, <i>The Nature of Work : An Introduction to Debates on the Labor Process</i>, Londres, MacMillan, 1983.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Veltman Andrea, <i>Meaningful Work</i>, Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2016.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Wall Richard, <i>Family Forms in Historic Europe</i>, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1983.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Weber Max, <i>The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism</i>, Londres, Unwin Press, 1930 ; trad. fr. <i>L’Éthique protestante et l’esprit du capitalisme</i>, Paris, Plon, 1964.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Weeks Kathi, <i>The Problem with Work : Feminism, Marxism, Antiwork Politics, and Postwork Imaginaries</i>, Durham, NC, Duke University Press, 2011.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Western Mark et Wright Erik Olin, « The Permeability of Class Boundaries to Intergenerational Mobility Among Men in the United States, Canada, Norway, and Sweden », <i>American Sociological Review</i>, vol. 59, n<sup>o</sup> 4, août 1994, p. 606-629.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">White R., « Motivation Reconsidered : The Concept of Competence », <i>Psychological Review</i>, vol. 66, 1959, p. 297-333.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Williams Eric, <i>Capitalism and Slavery</i>, New York, Capricorn Books, 1966.</p>
          <p class="txt_courant_justif">Wood Ellen Meiksins, <i>The Origins of Capitalism : A Longer View</i>, Londres, Verso, 2002.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>