<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR, Dexter in the Dark</title>
		<link href="../css/9780307455734_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="c34">
			<p class="cn"><b>THIRTY-FOUR</b></p>
			<p class="cotx1"><span class="ic"><b>T</b></span><small>HERE WAS NOT A GREAT DEAL MORE WORTH SEEING ON</small> the little island. Vince and the other forensic nerds would spot anything else worth the trouble, and our presence would only hamper them. Deborah was impatient and wanted to rush back to the mainland to intimidate suspects. So we walked to the beach and boarded the police launch for the short trip back across the harbor to the dock. I felt a little better when I climbed onto the dock and walked back to the parking lot.</p>
			<p class="tx">I didn’t see Cody and Astor, so I went over to Officer Low Forehead. “The kids are in the car,” he told me before I could speak. “They wanted to play cops and robbers with me, and I didn’t sign up for day care.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Apparently he was convinced that his line about day care was so sidesplittingly funny that it was worth repeating, so rather than risk having him say it again, I simply nodded, thanked him, and went over to Deborah’s car. Cody and Astor were not visible until I was practically on top of the car, and for a moment I wondered which car they were in. But then I saw them, crouching down in the backseat, looking at me with very wide eyes. I tried to open the door, but it was locked. “Can I come in?” I called through the glass.</p>
			<p class="tx">Cody fumbled with the lock, and then swung the door open.</p>
			<p class="tx">“What’s up?” I asked them.</p>
			<p class="tx">“We saw the scary guy,” Astor said.</p>
			<p class="tx">At first I had no idea what she meant by that, and so I really couldn’t say why I felt the sweat start rolling down my back. “What do you mean, the scary guy?” I said. “You mean that policeman over there?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Dex-terrr,” Astor said. “Not dumb, <i>scary</i>. Like when we saw the heads.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“The <i>same</i> scary guy?”</p>
			<p class="tx">They exchanged another look, and Cody shrugged. “Kind of,” Astor said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“He saw my shadow,” Cody said in his soft, husky voice.</p>
			<p class="tx">It was good to hear the boy open up like this, and even better, now I knew why the sweat was running down my back. He had said something about his shadow before, and I had ignored it. Now it was time to listen. I climbed into the backseat with them.</p>
			<p class="tx">“How do you know he saw your shadow, Cody?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“He <i>said</i> so,” Astor said. “And Cody could see <i>his</i>.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Cody nodded, without taking his eyes off my face, looking at me with his usual guarded expression that showed nothing. And yet I could tell that he trusted me to take care of whatever this was. I wished I could share his optimism.</p>
			<p class="tx">“When you say your shadow,” I asked him carefully, “do you mean the one on the ground that the sun makes?”</p>
			<p class="tx">Cody shook his head.</p>
			<p class="tx">“You have another shadow besides that,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">Cody looked at me like I had asked him if was wearing pants, but he nodded. “Inside,” he said. “Like you used to have.”</p>
			<p class="tx">I sat back against the seat and pretended to breathe. “Inside shadow.” It was a perfect description—elegant, economical, and accurate. And to add that I used to have one gave it a poignancy which I found quite moving.</p>
			<p class="tx">Of course, being moved really serves no useful purpose, and I usually manage to avoid it. In this case, I mentally shook myself and wondered what had happened to the proud towers of Castle Dexter, once so lofty and festooned with silk banners of pure reason. I remembered very well that I used to be smart, and yet here I was ignoring something important, ignoring it for far too long. Because the question was not what was Cody talking about. The real puzzle was why I had failed to understand him before.</p>
			<p class="tx">Cody had seen another predator and recognized him when the dark thing inside him heard the roar of a fellow monster, just as I had known others when my Passenger was at home. And this other had recognized Cody for what he was in exactly the same way. But why that should frighten Cody and Astor into hiding in the car—</p>
			<p class="tx">“Did the man say anything to you?” I asked them.</p>
			<p class="tx">“He gave me this,” Cody said. He held out a buff-colored business card and I took it from him.</p>
			<p class="tx">On the card was a stylized picture of a bull’s head, exactly like the one I had just seen around the neck of Kurt’s body out on the island. And underneath it was a perfect copy of Kurt’s tattoo: <small>MLK</small>.</p>
			<p class="tx">The front door of the car opened and Deborah hurled herself behind the wheel. “Let’s go,” she said. “Get in your seat.” She slammed the key into the ignition and had the car started before I could even inhale to speak.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Wait a minute,” I said after I managed to find a little air to work with.</p>
			<p class="tx">“I don’t <i>have</i> a goddamned minute,” she said. “Come on.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“He was here, Debs,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“For Christ’s sake, Dex, <i>who</i> was here?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“I don’t know,” I admitted.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Then how the fuck do you know he was here?”</p>
			<p class="tx">I leaned forward and handed her the card. “He left this,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">Deborah took the card, glanced at it, and then dropped it on the seat as if it was made out of cobra venom. “Shit,” she said. She turned off the car’s engine. “Where did he leave it?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“With Cody,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">She swiveled her head around and looked at the three of us, one after the other. “Why would he leave it with a kid?” she asked.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Because—” Astor said, and I put a hand on her mouth.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Don’t interrupt, Astor,” I said, before she could say anything about seeing shadows.</p>
			<p class="tx">She took a breath, but then she thought better of it and just sat there, unhappy at being muzzled but going along with it for the time being. We sat there for a moment, the four of us, one big unhappy extended family.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Why not stick it on the windshield, or send it in the mail?” Deborah said. “For that matter, why the hell give us the damn thing at all? Why even have it printed, for Christ’s sake?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“He gave it to Cody to intimidate us,” I said. “He’s saying, ‘See? I can get to you where you’re vulnerable.’”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Showing off,” Deborah said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Yes,” I said. “I think so.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Well goddamn it, that’s the first thing he’s done that made any sense at all.” She slapped the heels of her hands on the steering wheel. “He wants to play catch-me-if-you-can like all the other psychos, then by God I can play that game, too. And I’ll catch the son of a bitch.” She looked back at me. “Put that card in an evidence bag,” she said, “and try to get a description from the kids.” She opened the car door, vaulted out, and went over to talk to the big cop, Suchinsky.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Well,” I said to Cody and Astor, “can you remember what this man looked like?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Yes,” said Astor. “Are we really going to play with him like your sister said?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“She didn’t mean ‘play’ like you play kick the can,” I said. “It’s more like he’s daring us to try to catch him.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Then how is that different from kick the can?” she said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Nobody gets killed playing kick the can,” I told her. “What did this man look like?”</p>
			<p class="tx">She shrugged. “He was old.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“You mean, really old? White hair and wrinkles?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“No, you know. Old like you,” she said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Ah, you mean <i>old</i>,” I said, feeling the icy hand of mortality brush its fingers across my forehead and leave feebleness and shaky hands in its wake. It was not a promising start toward getting a real description, but after all, she was ten years old and all grown-ups are equally uninteresting. It was clear that Deborah had made the smart move by choosing to speak to Officer Dim instead. This was hopeless. Still, I had to try.</p>
			<p class="tx">A sudden inspiration hit me—or at any rate, considering my current lack of brain power, something that would have to stand in for inspiration. It would at least make sense if the scary guy had been Starzak, coming back after me. “Anything else about him you remember? Did he have an accent when he spoke?”</p>
			<p class="tx">She shook her head. “You mean like French or something? No, he just talked regular. Who’s Kurt?”</p>
			<p class="tx">It would be an exaggeration to say that my little heart went flip-flop at her words, but I certainly felt some kind of internal quiver. “Kurt is the dead guy I just looked at. Why do you want to know?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“The man said,” Astor said. “He said someday Cody would be a much better helper than Kurt.”</p>
			<p class="tx">A sudden, very cold chill rolled through Dexter’s interior climate. “Really,” I said. “What a nice man.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“He wasn’t nice at all, Dexter, we told you. He was scary.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“But what did he look like, Astor?” I said without any real hope. “How can we find him if we don’t know what he looks like?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“You don’t have to catch him, Dexter,” she said, with the same mildly irritated tone of voice. “He said you’ll find him when the time is right.”</p>
			<p class="tx">The world stopped for a moment, just long enough for me to feel drops of ice water shoot out of all my pores as if they were spring-loaded. “What exactly did he say?” I asked her when things started up again.</p>
			<p class="tx">“He said to tell you you’ll find him when the time is right,” she said. “I just said.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“How did he say it?” I said. “‘Tell Daddy?’ ‘Tell that man?’ What?”</p>
			<p class="tx">She sighed again. “Tell <i>Dexter</i>,” she said, slowly so I would understand. “That’s you. He said, ‘Tell Dexter he’ll find me when the time is right.’”</p>
			<p class="tx">I suppose I should have been even more scared. But strangely enough, I wasn’t. Instead, I felt better. Now I knew for sure—someone really was stalking me. Whether a god or a mortal, it didn’t matter anymore, and he would come get me when the time was right, whatever that meant.</p>
			<p class="tx">Unless I got him first.</p>
			<p class="tx">It was a silly thought, straight out of a high-school locker room. I had so far shown absolutely no ability to stay even half a step ahead of whoever this was, let alone find him. I’d done nothing but watch as he stalked me, scared me, chased me, and drove me into a state of dark dithering unlike anything I had ever experienced before.</p>
			<p class="tx">He knew who, what, and where I was. I didn’t even know what he looked like. “Please, Astor, this is important,” I said. “Was he real tall? Did he have a beard? Was he Cuban? Black?”</p>
			<p class="tx">She shrugged. “Just, you know,” she said, “a white man. He had glasses. Just a regular man. You know.”</p>
			<p class="tx">I didn’t know, but I was saved from admitting it when Deborah yanked open the driver’s door and slid back into the car. “Jesus Christ,” she said. “How can a man be that dumb and still tie his own shoes?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Does that mean Officer Suchinsky didn’t have a lot to say?” I asked her.</p>
			<p class="tx">“He had plenty to say,” Deborah said. “But it was all brain-dead bullshit. He thought the guy might have been driving a green car, and that’s about it.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Blue,” Cody said, and we all looked at him. “It was blue.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Are you sure?” I asked him, and he nodded.</p>
			<p class="tx">“So do I believe a little kid?” Deborah asked. “Or a cop with fifteen years on the force and nothing in his head but shit?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“You shouldn’t keep saying those bad words,” Astor said. “That’s five and a half dollars you owe me. And anyway, Cody’s right, it was a blue car. I saw it, too, and it was blue.”</p>
			<p class="tx">I looked at Astor, but I could feel the pressure of Deborah’s stare on me and I turned back to her.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Well?” she said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Well,” I said. “Without the bad words, these are two very sharp kids, and Officer Suchinsky will never be invited to join Mensa.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“So I’m supposed to believe them,” she said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“I do.”</p>
			<p class="tx">Deborah chewed on that for a moment, literally moving her mouth around as if she was grinding some very tough food. “Okay,” she said at last. “So now I know he’s driving a blue car, just like one out of every three people in Miami. Tell me how that helps me.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Wilkins drives a blue car,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Wilkins is under surveillance, goddamn it,” she said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Call them.”</p>
			<p class="tx">She looked at me, chewed on her lip, and then picked up her radio and stepped out of the car. She talked for a moment, and I heard her voice rising. Then she said another of her very bad words, and Astor looked at me and shook her head. And then Deborah slammed herself back into the car.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Son of a bitch,” she said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“They lost him?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“No, he’s right there, at his house,” she said. “He just pulled in and went in the house.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Where did he go?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“They don’t know,” she said. “They lost him on the shift change.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“What?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“DeMarco was coming in as Balfour was punching out,” she said. “He slipped away while they were changing. They swear he wasn’t gone more than ten minutes.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“His house is a five-minute drive from here.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“I know that,” she said bitterly. “So what do we do?”</p>
			<p class="tx">“Keep them watching Wilkins,” I said. “And in the meantime, you go talk to Starzak.”</p>
			<p class="tx">“You’re coming with me, right?” she said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“No,” I said, thinking that I certainly didn’t want to see Starzak, and that for once I had a perfect excuse in place. “I have to get the kids home.”</p>
			<p class="tx">She gave me a sour look. “And what if it isn’t Starzak?” she said.</p>
			<p class="tx">I shook my head. “I don’t know,” I said.</p>
			<p class="tx">“Yeah,” she said. “I don’t know either.” She started the engine. “Get in your seat.”</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>