<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>COPYRIGHT, Dexter in the Dark</title>
		<link href="../css/9780307455734_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="copyright-page">
		<div class="copyright" id="cop">
			<p class="crt9">FIRST VINTAGE CRIME/BLACK LIZARD EDITION, AUGUST 2008</p>
			<p class="crt9"><i>Copyright © 2007 by Jeff Lindsay</i><br/><i>Excerpt from</i> Dearly Devoted Dexter <i>copyright © 2009 by Jeff Lindsay</i></p>
			<p class="crt9">All rights reserved. Published in the United States by Vintage Books, a division of Penguin Random House LLC, New York, and distributed in Canada by Penguin Random House Canada Limited, Toronto. Originally published in hardcover in the United States by Doubleday, an imprint of The Doubleday Broadway Publishing Group, a division of Penguin Random House LLC, New York, in 2007.</p>
			<p class="crt9">Vintage is a registered trademark and Vintage Crime/Black Lizard and colophon are trademarks of Penguin Random House LLC.</p>
			<p class="crt9">This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, events or locales is entirely coincidental.</p>
			<p class="crt9">The Library of Congress has cataloged the Doubleday edition as follows:<br/>Lindsay, Jeffry P.<br/>Dexter in the dark : a novel / Jeff Lindsay. —1st ed.<br/>p. cm.<br/>1. Forensic scientists—Fiction. 2. Vigilantes—Fiction. 3. Serial murderers—Fiction. 4. Miami (Fla.)—Fiction. 5. Psychological fiction. I. Title.<br/>PS3562.I51175D47 2007<br/>813′.54—dc22<br/>2007020277</p>
			<p class="crt9"><b>Vintage Crime/Black Lizard ISBN 9780307276735</b><br/><b>Ebook ISBN 9780307455734</b></p>
			<p class="crt9"><a class="pubhlink" href="http://www.vintagebooks.com">www.vintagebooks.com</a></p>
			<p class="crt9" id="release_identifier_line">rh_3.0_139160079_c0_r6</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>